

# The Discipline of Wonder

There’s a rust topped hummingbird rolling his nickel sized head back and forth about 12 feet in front of me.
This is as still as hummingbirds get unless they’re asleep or dead. He’s on the lookout for rival hummers
who would love a sip from his prized sweet-water feeder. There’s a white shield of feathers just under his
gullet that frames his pride and strength. It adds presence that adds volume beyond his size. He’s truly
wonderful.

Are all his characteristics necessary? Is his plume or his color a trait developed for safety or
reproductivity? What can explain the utility of the whir of his wings or their ghosted shape fanning the air?
Has explanation become our first instinct of observation?

This morning, I am content to remember to simply enjoy him buzzing and humming. Fascinated by his efforts to
protect his territory. There is a full circus of wonder packed into this miniature creature.

This short experience this morning makes me think I’ve forgotten to seek awe. I literally mean that I have
not properly budgeted time for it. It is not hard to find. A simple blade of grass breaking ground is more
than enough to shut me up and remind me to stand silent and small before the vast sum of all creation. It’s
only when I am placed firmly in that sum – as a handful of dust made living by the magic of a loving
designer, standing alongside grass, and bugs, and birds, and oxygen, and bacteria – that I can be the
designer I wish to be. It’s then that I am most able to create with a tenuous marriage of wonder and
utility.

I need to return to some kind of discipline, a daily reminder to seek wonder. It’s a more natural part of
being a “fine artist”, but since becoming a designer I’ve neglected the practice. This little
hummingbird has me thinking about how I might effect a small moment of enjoyable awe in the web and mobile
experiences I create as a designer. How can the businesses I imagine and bring to life draw out wonder in
those it serves or in those who are employed by it?

When everything in our work is pushing us toward convenience, through speed perhaps, we ought to stand still
in the moving stream and reflect whether those efficiencies are making life for people truly richer, better,
or fuller? I suspect we have lost some things that the analog taught us as we trudge up this digital path.
I’m going to see if I can re-find some of them.